# Study.com ENG305: Advanced Technical Writing Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** I've done plenty of writing, mostly non-creative and often technical in nature, though my education is primarily in non-fictional writing rather than specifically technical writing. I was really not worried about this class going into it, but I did learn a bit from it. <br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 116 quizzes<br>
**Earned Grade:** 94%<br>
**Time Spent:** 22:35:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **8**
I started this class while I was in the middle of taking the SQL courses on SDC, and I was really pleasantly surprised with it. SDC's technical courses were extremely bad, but this one was thoroughly fine. There was very little in the way of quality control issues that I saw and the material was pretty reasonably put together. Even as someone who has done a lot of writing training documentation or proposals at work, things of that nature, I learned a few things here that I wasn't expecting and will incorporate into my future writing. The biggest fault that I would say this class had was being too long. I'd imagine that if I had done lower level English courses on SDC, I would've had many of these quizzes done preemptively and the class would've felt shorter as a result. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **7**
This class' project requires the student to write an internal unsolicited proposal, providing a couple options for specific proposals. I chose to do the one of suggesting improvement for my phone, as if I worked at Google. The program itself was reasonable and felt appropriately connected to the class material, which adequately prepared the student for the project. I did lose a few points for not including any visual aids, which I missed was included in the rubric because it wasn't included in the assignment text. Overall, the assignment was fine. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **7**
As mentioned, probably wouldn't have been as long as it was if the student is taking other ENG classes at SDC. While I think that all of SDC's classes suffer from being hodge podge'd together by a variety of authors instead of letting a single author string together a series of concepts, this is perfectly fine class and might represent the best that you're going to get out of that particular method of building classes. There are probably better courses on technical writing that could provide more insight or whatnot, especially on specific types of writing (grants, proposals, etc.), but this class is perfectly fine, especially for a newer student, and college credits are always welcome!
