# Study.com CS303: Database Management Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** This class was very similar to CS204, with the new material being security & management in SQL. This part of SQL was new to me, as it was not covered in the SQL class I'd previously taken (and very much enjoyed) through Udacity's Programming for Data Science NanoDegree. <br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 69 quizzes *(41 completed by CS107, 52 completed by CS107 & CS204 together)*<br>
**Earned Grade:** 94%<br>
**Time Spent:** 8:08:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **3**
This class, especially taken in conjunction with the previous two (CS107 & CS204) is pretty short. The class does a little bit more of the security/management end of databases, especially building and establishing relationships within databases. It does continue to suffer from the same problems as the previous lessons in the series (concepts with no code, code with no explanations, incorrect code, unclear or incorrect elements on quizzes) but there are simply less of these issues because the class is shorter (at least, if you took the two previous classes). It's not a good class at all, but it is an easy one if you've already learned SQL elsewhere. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **6**
This project requires students to use MySQL to build a small database using provided sample data and prompts. Students are then given a series of steps to do of modifying portions of the database, identifying some issues, performing some basic troubleshooting, applying updates, and performing some advanced queries. This project was easier than the CS204 project in my opinion, and I think the entire series of CS107/204/303 would benefit from being more coherently put together in terms of these projects. In this way, the projects could progressively build upon each other from one class to the next, becoming more complex in their nature and in the tasks asked of the students. Having some familiarity with the database, the exercises would be more clear to students as well. The higher level elements of this project (updating and manipulating the structure of a database) seems reasonable for the class, but overall the project was quite easy. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **5**
This is the least offensive of CS107, 204, 303. That's primarily because of two things. 1) The class is short enough that even though its not good, it's at least over quickly. 2) You're not taking a 300-level SQL/database class to learn about SQL & databases, you should've already learned about them elsewhere so you can blow through this one. This class suffers from all of the same issues as the previous ones, especially the horrific quality control from SDC. However, if you made it through the other two classes, this one is going to be the least offensive and problematic of the three. 

