# Study.com HUM201: Critical Thinking & Analysis Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** I've taken some philosophy classes before, so I was familiar with a bit of the logical fallacies end of the class. As mentioned, I'm pretty comfortable writing, so the projects weren't too intimidating either, even if they were really aggravating to do.<br> 
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 86 quizzes<br>
**Earned Grade:** 94%<br>
**Time Spent:** 56:49:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **7**
Again, much like my notes on the ENG305 class at SDC, SDC's non-technical courses seem to be much better than their technical courses. This class was decent, though there were more things that I took issue with here. The class primarily focuses on identifying biases and logical fallacies as it pertains to thinking critically about information presented to you, but sometimes it seems to focus on the wrong things. As an example, one lesson uses an example of heliocentrism (solar system orbits the sun) and geocentrism (solar system orbits the earth). The specifics of the scientific theories are not the real point of the course, but one of the quiz questions for that lesson focuses on defining what heliocentrism is as a scientific theory, despite that not being what the class was about. This is maybe not a big deal, but that same question showed up on my final exam (the exam questions seem to be pulled mostly from the quiz questions) and is thus testing my knowledge about an irrelevant scientific concept.<br> 
There are some other similar issues where the focus seems to be on minutiae that aren't really relevant to the overall goal of equipping students to think critically of the material they are presented. This is, in my opinion, a great example of how SDC's poor quality control is present in every class that they offer, even the "better" classes that they have available. This is certainly an important class, and I'm glad that it's one that my university has made mandatory. <br>
I would've liked to see the class get away from the conceptual ideas and into actual practice. I think that would be more engaging, and you could do it in ways that would not be problematic in terms of appearing to be politically biased. In my experience as a trainer, this would be a lot more useful than a lot of the quiz questions and focus on concepts that SDC uses instead. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **4**
I'm a bit torn on this one. This class involves doing three essays, each of which total up to the normal 100 points for a single project. The essays are as follows:<br>
1) 1500+ words - Read one of three provided written debates, and summarize the arguments for each side, deconstruct them into truth tables and symbolic statements, and analyze them. <br>
2) 1500+ words - Watch a politician's speech and identify 5 different fallacies used in the speech, explaining how the fallacies are used and how they are fallacious, and discuss how the argument could be restated to avoid the fallacy. <br>
3) 2500+ words - Watch one national news show from two of CNN, FOX, MSNBC, etc. and summarize the stories presented and how they were reported upon, explore historical issues of bias in each source, explain how viewers could be get different senses of current events by only watching one or the other, and discuss how each source could reduce their bias.<br>

This is undeniably important stuff, especially in a "post-truth" society, but I have to admit that I kind of resented being made to watch an hour of Fox News or having to read through some really awful political speeches. <br>
I very much considered just not doing at least one of these assignments because they weren't worth that much of my grade, relatively speaking, and that also speaks to the oddity of having all three assignments only count for 100 points total (1/3 of the class grade). As a college class goes, this isn't a terribly unreasonable set of assignments, but it's also noticeably longer than the equivalent class at any of the common online universities. WGU, TESU, UMPI, etc. all have a similar class which consists of only one essay, instead of three. I only realized I should've left this class for WGU when I was already working on my second essay and it was too late to quit. <br>
All of this combines to take assignments that are fairly reasonable and instead make them feel less important. I think that SDC would be much better served to get rid of at least one of these essays, and they could potentially make up some of the other "content" by using more practical exercises in the actual lessons. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **5**
As mentioned, this is a great class to take at your university after transferring in. If you're more concerned with cost than you are time, then this is a fine option to get a credit done, and the class isn't without value. It just ends up not feeling very good because of the amount of work that you put into it, relative to other classes. 
