# Study.com CS107: Database Fundamentals Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed.  <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.<br><br>
**Prior Experience With Subject: ** This class was an SQL introduction class, and I had already completed a really good SQL class through Udacity's Programming for Data Science NanoDegree.<br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 101 quizzes<br>
**Earned Grade:** 93%<br>
**Time Spent:** 26:47:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **2**
As mentioned, I knew my way around SQL pretty well going into this class. While I didn't know about different flavors of SQL (the class I took exclusively focused on PostgreSQL) or actually building a database, I could build and run queries, even advanced ones, quite easily. Having learned my way around SQL just a few months prior, I feel like I was able to look at this with relatively fresh eyes and the point of view of someone for whom SQL would be truly new. In that regard, I don't think that this class would in any way actually teach someone to use SQL all that effectively.  <br>
SDC's classes are built out of independent lessons written and put together by a number of writers, who take different approaches. These often do not jive together and sometimes even tend to conflict in terms of their direction or their vocabulary. Just like if you and I tried to tell a story about a given incident, we might start out in the same place, but by page 3 we would be on different things, the same thing happens here. Some of the authors do a better job than others, but when you're only getting one "good" lesson out of every 10, it's simply not enough. Several authors may explain a concept, but not provide code to actually demonstrate how that concept is used. Others will provide a bunch of code, but not actually explain the concept. And because these lessons are generally on different subjects, you're usually not getting the proper "full" picture that a student new to SQL would need. Especially without actual proper practical exercises like other programs have, this is a big issue. <br>
The class (and this will apply to all of SDC's SQL classes) is also rife with errors. Where code is provided, it is often abbreviated such that if a new student were to try to copy it, they would not have usable code because it would depend upon other things not clearly defined. Especially when dealing with students who lack the prior knowledge to "fill in the blanks", this is an issue. Code is often incorrect, containing spelling or syntax errors. This could maybe be overlooked, but because the class lacks meaningful practical elements, the class stresses these concepts upon the student while simultaneously undermining them. If you want the student to recognize that one query is wrong on a quiz question because of a missing semicolon or misspelling, you can't expect them to recognize that as not being an issue on a subsequent question. Moreover, many quiz questions were just plain incorrect or misrepresenting information without the necessary context for a new student who lacks that context. <br>
Throughout the three SQL classes, I submitted well over 100 tickets using the "Report a problem" link located on the lessons and their associated quizzes. I'm doubtful that the issues that I pointed out have been fixed, given the very low quality of material in the first place. The fact that there were so many errors (and that these errors were evident to myself, a relative SQL newbie) really emphasizes the total lack of quality control at SDC, at least where their technical classes are concerned. That will be a running theme throughout these reviews. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **1**
This project required the student to write an APA-style essay analyzing a sample database. The student would then draw out an Entity Relationship Diagram, identify Primary and Foreign Keys, the level of normalization, and identify the flavor of SQL used. While this *could* be a good project, the database was very poorly built and extremely unclear. The database had no sample data, only sample headings, so the student is forced to make a lot of assumptions about what an abbreviated table or column name actually meant, how it would be used, the values that would go within each field, etc. In the end, my essay included a very lengthy "assumptions" section, as I felt I had to explain the assumptions that I made in analyzing the database, since all of my inferences were underpinned on these assumptions that were not specifically given. <br>
In my opinion, the better assignment for a 100-level SQL class would've involved building and populating a sample SQL database and making simple queries. This could've been made more basic by providing a database, and just requiring the student to make queries. This essay and determining normalization is a more advanced concept, as is determining flavors of SQL. For this assignment to work better, the sample database would need to be actually have some sample data to make it clearer to introductory students how the database was actually being used.  <br>
Regarding the issue of SQL flavors, this was not clearly enough addressed in the class, and there are number of topics and threads out there discussing this because the sample database was so sparse as to make it difficult to exclude many SQL flavors. In the end, I've seen a couple of different answers on what flavor was used, all of which seem to get full credit. As long as you make some sort of argument, it seems that you'll be given credit regardless of the SQL flavor that you declare the database to be. <br>
Grading of this essay was also extremely inconsistent. I was specifically docked points because 1) I did not explain how the database could be modified to reach 3NF and 2) I did not draw an ERD of what the database would look like in 3NF. Neither of these were required in the prompt, and I was quite annoyed to lose a few points (8 points, 3% of my overall class grade) to this. The prompt asked the student to identify the normalization level and draw an ERD, not to correct this and analyze the hypothetical future-state of the database. Moreover, doing this would require even more assumptions about the database, because of how little information was provided about it. In my opinion, this was entirely unreasonable. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **1**
If you are a student who genuinely is taking this class to learn about SQL, I expect that you would not learn much about SQL from it. In fact, you'll probably finish the class being more confused about SQL than when you started. This class has absolutely zero value in the way of educating anyone about SQL, and SDC should be ashamed by the extremely poor quality on offer from this course. This could be much improved by taking each sub-section (collections of lessons comprising a chapter) and letting a single author develop those lessons to ensure a more coherent progression and explanation of concepts and their application. The class is also in dire need of a proper practical element, which could be developed easily enough and incorporated into a project portion which would actually be meaningful and worthwhile to the student. At present, the *only* value that CS107 provides is as a cheap and easy way to get some college credits for someone who already knows their way around SQL.
