# Study.com CS204: Database Programming Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** This class was a more advanced SQL class but getting into a bit of the security and management elements. This part of SQL was new to me, as it was not covered in the SQL class I'd previously taken (and very much enjoyed) through Udacity's Programming for Data Science NanoDegree. <br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 85 quizzes *(34 completed by CS107)*<br>
**Earned Grade:** 94%<br>
**Time Spent:** 23:03:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **1**
This class suffered from many of the same problems already mentioned in the CS107 review, but many of them were worse. While there were some elements of SQL that were new to me (mostly just the security and database management stuff), it did a very poor job of explaining them. Many lessons consisted of only code, with no explanation of exactly how the code worked. Other lessons were all concepts, with no code demonstration to help show how the concept worked. Where code was present, it was often significantly abbreviated (preventing a student from easily replicating it) or it often contained typos or syntax errors. Errors were extremely common in the quizzes, where there was somehow even less work or quality control put forth than in the lessons. Of the well over 100+ errors that I reported, at least half of them were on quizzes, usually where a correct answer was problematic or sometimes even incorrect itself. Many of the quiz questions are just written unclearly or otherwise poorly.

## Project Grade (1-10): **5**
This project requires students to build a MySQL database consistent with a provided Entity Relationship Diagram, and then populate that database with data that is provided. The students are then provided 15 pieces of information for which they must generate queries to return the desired information.<br>
This project was a good one, and it honestly felt like it should've been the project for CS107 instead. There were a few queries which were somewhat complex that might be a bit beyond the new student's abilities at that level, but this could easily be remedied. Having a consistent database throughout all three SQL classes and running progressively more complex operations on it would be an excellent way to structure the projects for all three classes, and it would also provide an easy way to generate practical examples for students during the actual course lessons. Unfortunately, this opportunity isn't possible given the hodge-podge nature of SDC's classes. If the goal of SDC is genuinely to provide a means for people to learn new subjects or skills and just earn quick college credits, this would be an excellent way to try to achieve this. <br>
I am docking a few points from this project for a few reasons. First of all, the project requires the student to populate four tables with entries, each of which have a reasonable number of entries (a couple dozen) except for one, which has several hundred. This becomes extremely tedious and increases the opportunities for mistakes to be made that don't involve SQL, such as making typos on a name or transposing numbers in a year. If the student has demonstrated the ability to correctly add data to the table, there's no gained value by making them do it another 200+ times. As mentioned, this actually destroys value. Additionally, some of the questions are very unclear, or the phrasing of them actually allows for a literal reading to mean that the action and/or its results should not be provided. As a result, the student is forced to do some assuming about what SDC wants, which should not be the case. Clear and effective directions do not leave this opportunity for misunderstanding.<br>
The provided sample data and ERD to build the project database also includes several typos, some of which have to be corrected in order to meet the requirements of the ERD and make the database work correctly, but at least one of these is used as part of a "trick question" in the queries for the student. Trick questions can only have value when a teacher is there to explain the concept and to ensure that the correct concept is learned, and to ensure that this does not happen at the expense of losing the overall point. Again, this dovetails quite nicely with SDC's poor quality control forcing the student to make assumptions about what SDC wants, rather than being able to focus on what is objectively correct or incorrect. This is an extremely bad choice by SDC and another great example of the grievous lack of quality control in the vast majority of their classes. Truly, they should be ashamed. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **3**
Again, I don't believe that a genuinely new-to-SQL student would get much out of this class. It's so poorly done and the quality of instruction and materials is so bad that I'd be very concerned about a student who attempted to learn SQL from this. You would be much better off taking an actually good SQL class, and then being able to breeze through SDC's offerings on databases and SQL to get some easy college credits. Frankly, I don't know how these classes were ever approved by ACE for college credits. I mean, I'm glad they are, but they absolutely shouldn't be.

