# Study.com CS115: Programming in Java Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** I had learned Python earlier in the year, which was my only real experience with programming. I had no real knowledge of Java at all prior to this class. <br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 76 quizzes<br>
**Earned Grade:** 94%<br>
**Time Spent:** 32:51:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **1**
This class, like the other Computer Science classes at SDC, is not good. I did not know Java coming into it, so I was less prepared to recognize problems than I was with the SQL classes, but I still noticed lots of inconsistencies throughout the course. In particular, I struggled a lot with understanding some of the basic elements of Java that were not explained in this class. Where I was able to understand Python fairly readily, the basic structure of Java as being functions built within classes and not having standalone functions was very confusing and unclear to me. Nothing within the class really explained this clearly to me, and absent this instruction, I was lost for quite a while and frustrated when abbreviated code snippets (omitting the necessary context) would not work in VSCode for me. <br>
I eventually used a helpful tutorial on Youtube to learn Java well enough to be able to finish the class, as I certainly wasn't learning it from this course. This is another great example of the absolutely horrible job that most "beginner" programming classes do of teaching programming. It's no wonder that a tech gap exists when there's so many thoroughly bad and inadequate classes out there, including this one. This class really didn't have any redeeming values, aside from that it wasn't particularly long. The back end of the class was especially bad, as the final 10% of the class consists of trying to show how to create Java graphics and GUIs with Java Swing, which was even less adequately explained than the rest of the course and felt shoehorned in to the course content. Why was this not a separate 200-level course?

## Project Grade (1-10): **7**
This project requires the student to create a Java program in an IDE that uses arrays and loops to store test scores and computer an average score and letter grade. As projects go, this one was fairly simple and I actually would've liked to see it be slightly more complex in its requirements, perhaps with required error checking or some other elements. Overall though, for an introductory level programming class, it was perfectly fine. The nature of the project does highlight the class material being unnecessarily complex and poorly organized, however. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **3**
This class was, like the other SDC technical courses, very bad. Again, if you are a student who is new to learning Java programming and expecting to learn something here, you're going to be disappointed and likely more confused by the end than when you started. However, if you want to get an easy 3 college credits and have already taken the time to learn Java elsewhere (like a free Youtube video), then there's a value here. Again, I really don't know how ACE has this stuff approved for college credit, but I sure am glad that they do! At some point, SDC is going to get in trouble or lose accreditation or whatever, and this class is going to be one of the reasons why. Until then, you might as well get on that gravy train of college credits, baby!
