# Study.com CS201: Data Structures & Algorithms Review
**Format:** Study.com (SDC) organizes their classes into individual lessons, with each lesson having a 5-6 question quiz at the conclusion. Most lessons are available in either video or text form. Lessons do not have a true "practical" element to them, and while some classes have a couple of "practical" lessons, these lessons consist of telling the student to do something, without actually providing a means or environment to do it, nor a way for the student to check their work and verify that they have done it correctly. <br>
When a student completes a quiz, they may get credit for multiple lessons, if SDC believes that quiz covers another lesson as well. As such, the student may not have to talk all of the quizzes in a class. If a lesson is included in another class (say, a 200-level class reviewing a concept from a 100-level class), the student will have credit for completion of that lesson's quiz upon entering the 200-level class. With some classes, this can dramatically reduce the number of quizzes to be completed. <br>
SDC's classes are organized into two or three parts, each worth 100 points. The first part is the class quizzes, and the second part is the proctored final. Finals are recorded via webcam (laptop internal webcam is fine) and reviewed later. Most classes also include a third 100-point section, a final project or performance assessment.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** I had learned Python programming earlier in the year, and I was familiar with several data structures as a result of that, but this class focused a lot on Java and especially trees in Java. A lot of it was not stuff that I had much familiarity with. <br>
**Number of Quizzes/Lessons:** 81 quizzes *(9 completed by CS115)*<br>
**Earned Grade:** 93%<br>
**Time Spent:** 29:06:00<br>

## Class Grade (1-10): **5**
This class is very much a successor to CS115, and it was the reason that I took CS115 so that I would have some Java knowledge upon entering this class. This class is almost exclusively focused on Java programming, which I found rather strange considering that its supposed to be more broad than that. Maybe there's a reason for this, but if it exists, that reason was never made clear to me. The class deals with many data types in Java which are often found in other programming languages. The class gets into some more advanced types like trees, but with how rigidly it was focused on Java, it leaves it pretty unclear to the reader if these exist in other languages and in what forms. That seems like an oversight, because these concepts should at least be addressed in the larger picture and not just in the extremely specific Java perspective. <br>
If you are familiar with any programming language, much of this should at least make some conceptual sense to you, though it will be much easier if you know Java, since the class is so strictly focused on it. I would also be curious if someone with more familiarity than myself on the subject matter would find more issues with the class, similar to how I found more issues in the SQL classes due to my familiarity with SQL. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **8**
This class project requires the student to populate, sort, and search a two dimensional array, and then store that data into a HashMap. The project provides some directions that are a little unclear in terms of why you're doing what you're doing in the order that you're doing it in, but they're easy enough to follow. The project itself is overall quite reasonable for the subject matter, and I actually enjoyed putting it together. I'd like some minor adjustments to the project to be a little more practically useful rather than strictly following the directions, but it's definitely the best project of the technical classes I'd taken at SDC.

## Overall Grade (1-10): **6**
Of the five technical classes that I took at SDC at the end of 2021, this was the one that had the most value outside of its existence as a cheap and easy college credit. The course itself has some definite issues, but the project is a good one and the experience of doing it was worthwhile. This may be damning with faint praise, but I think the best thing I can say for this is that where SDC's other technical classes had no value and should be burned down and something new built in their place, this is a class that had value and would benefit from some quality control effort being put into making it better. 
